## Connecting, Writing & Reading Data
I've added an example using really simple blocking reads/writes to show how you would send the handshake bytes to a remote KDB process (and await its single-byte response), and write a message to it and display the response.

This library deliberately makes no attempt to own your application's TCP interactions, and you can use the bytes generated by the encoders in blocking or asynchronous comms. 

See [connect_to_kdb.cpp](src/connect_to_kdb.cpp) for the working example, which unless you hack the source requires a KDB remote listening on port `30998` to echo the message.

## Using `KdbJournal`

I've recently added a new helper-class `mg7x::KdbJournal` which lets you scan and do various things with an existing journal. Check [journal_reader.cpp](src/journal_reader.cpp) for a working example of an implementation that will filter all`` `upd`` messages for the `trade` table. In this dummy implementation, it simply prints the message content to the console, _e.g._:
```
ipc++$ bin/journal_reader
 INFO: opened journal /home/michaelg/tmp/dst.journal containing 600 messages
Have matching message: (`upd;`trade;(2025.06.10D08:00:00.000000000 2025.06.10D08:00:00.000000001 2025.06.10D08:00:00.000000002;`DHC.L`MHO.L`MGP.L;156.15260740742087 107.04381144605577 121.24007358215749f;185 189 123))
Have matching message: (`upd;`trade;((enlist 2025.06.10D08:05:06.000000000);(enlist`HCH.L);(enlist 153.50922802463174f);(enlist 184)))
Have matching message: (`upd;`trade;(2025.06.10D08:10:12.000000000 2025.06.10D08:10:12.000000001 2025.06.10D08:10:12.000000002;`KKC.L`JMA.L`JOP.L;197.97280908096582 158.23058849200606 125.56863487698138f;174 118 137))
Have matching message: (`upd;`trade;(2025.06.10D08:20:24.000000000 2025.06.10D08:20:24.000000001 2025.06.10D08:20:24.000000002;`KFL.L`BBB.L`OGO.L;199.96081616263837 174.33285135775805 123.7128796055913f;189 149 180))
Have matching message: (`upd;`trade;(2025.06.10D08:30:36.000000000 2025.06.10D08:30:36.000000001 2025.06.10D08:30:36.000000002;`BNJ.L`KON.L`HDM.L;163.571823714301 177.71303341723979 108.22687379550189f;122 151 104))
Have matching message: (`upd;`trade;(2025.06.10D08:40:48.000000000 2025.06.10D08:40:48.000000001;`GPH.L`LFM.L;111.75354989245534 192.34385737217963f;144 115))
Have matching message: (`upd;`trade;(2025.06.10D08:51:00.000000000 2025.06.10D08:51:00.000000001;`ILE.L`BFA.L;134.0392955346033 196.14594101440161f;100 155))
...
```

## Tickerplant Subscriber

The [subscribe_to_tp.cpp](src/subscribe_to_tp.cpp) app showcases how this library can get you connected to a tickerplant, request the location of its log-file, replay that file (while filtering just the tables you want) and then listen for subsequent messages delivered over the wire. 

It too uses blocking-IO so that the async-boilerplate doesn't get in the way. The library's components are entirely ambivalent about where their data come from: they just operate over buffers, how you get the data is up to you.

## Testing whether a "Magic" or circular buffer works with `io_uring`'s fixed-buffers

Fabien Giesen christened the nose-to-tail mapping of the same underlying memory allocation as a "[Magic Buffer](https://fgiesen.wordpress.com/2012/07/21/the-magic-ring-buffer/)". In my code I've named it a circular buffer, which is clearly wrong, since only one arc is repeated ;)

This small research project tests whether the double-mapping is compatible with `io_uring`'s fixed-buffer mechanism. In short: it behaves exactly as expected, and it's virtual memory all the way down.

### How I've tested

This project contains a C++ application which creates a circular buffer of size 4096 (which can be addressed as if it were 8192 bytes). It writes a KDB IPC message at offset 4090, so that it straddles the join-point in the mapping, and then uses `io_uring_prep_write_fixed` to send the message to two connected KDB instances. Both receive the message and print the standard greeting to their consoles.

### Initial thoughts

It's fairly easy to see how this could be useful in a native-code tickerplant. Together with a kernel polling-thread you'd make no system calls when publishing. Accounting correctly for slow consumers becomes the name of the game.

It would be interesting to see whether you could _also_ write to the journal by simply specifying a start-offset which strips off the IPC header, and do all of that from the same receive-buffer. You could use multiple SQEs each with a single write or one larger `writev` SQE. I'm extemporising here, as you may have noticed ;)

While looking for `io_uring_prep_writev_fixed` (which doesn't exist at the moment), [this](https://github.com/axboe/liburing/issues/1191) `liburing` issue is interesting, and Jens Axboe [replies](https://github.com/axboe/liburing/issues/1191#issuecomment-2436616145) that the `writev` variant is on the to-do list.

Later, Pavel Begunof [comments](https://github.com/axboe/liburing/issues/1191#issuecomment-2436640290):
> The caveat is, as Jens mentioned, it's only useful for zero copy, i.e. SEND_ZC and O_DIRECT read/write.
> If you writev to a socket, it'll be copied anyway and registered buffers won't be on any help to performance.

He then references the [patch](https://lore.kernel.org/io-uring/cover.1741362889.git.asml.silence@gmail.com/) landed in version the 6.15 kernel:

> Add registered buffer support for vectored io_uring operations. That allows to pass an iovec, all entries of which must belong to and point into the same registered buffer specified by sqe->buf_index.

I'm left wondering (at 2025-10-17, but have to crack on with other things) whether this exists in the 6.15 kernel but does not yet a `liburing` "prep" function.

